README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<img src="app/src/main/res/mipmap-xxhdpi/ic_launcher_round.png" alt="Accrescent">

# Accrescent

A novel Android app store with a focus on security, privacy, and usability.

</div>

**Note: Accrescent is not yet ready for production usage. Consider all software
and services run by this organization as in a "pre-alpha" stage and fit only for
development and preliminary testing. The apps Accrescent contains are there only
for testing purposes and will be removed (except for Accrescent itself) when
Accrescent enters public alpha.**

## About

The Google Play Store is the de-facto app store in the Android ecosystem.
However, many users are unsatisfied with some of its practices and policies such
as mandatory Play App Signing for new apps and the need for a Google account to
use the store. These users often turn to F-Droid, which fails to adhere to the
Android security model and provide timely and secure app updates from a
store with strict minimum security requirements.

Accrescent aims to provide an accessible app store with modern security features
and strict minimum requirements for apps it hosts. It currently runs on Android
12 and up.

## Trademark

The name "Accrescent" and the Accrescent logo are common law trademarks owned by
the Accrescent project. All other parties are forbidden from using Accrescent's
name and branding, as are derivatives of Accrescent. Derivatives include, but
are not limited to forks and unofficial builds.

Commit message:

Elaborate on Accrescent itself in the README
Although it's a good idea to mention the downsides of other app stores
in explaining Accrescent's existence, we should focus more on the
benefits of Accrescent than the detriments of F-Droid etc..

The About section is mostly copied from the website.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<img src="app/src/main/res/mipmap-xxhdpi/ic_launcher_round.png" alt="Accrescent">

# Accrescent

A novel Android app store with a focus on security, privacy, and usability.

</div>

**Note: Accrescent is not yet ready for production usage. Consider all software
and services run by this organization as in a "pre-alpha" stage and fit only for
development and preliminary testing. The apps Accrescent contains are there only
for testing purposes and will be removed (except for Accrescent itself) when
Accrescent enters public alpha.**

## About

Accrescent is a private and secure Android app store built with modern features
in mind. It aims to provide a developer-friendly platform and pleasant user
experience while enforcing modern security and privacy practices and offering
robust validity guarantees for installed apps. It does this through the
following features:

- App signing key pinning
- Signed repository metadata
- Automatic, unprivileged, unattended updates
- Full support for split APKs
- No remote APK signing
- Meaningful quality control for submitted apps

...and more. See [the website] for details.

Accrescent currently runs on Android 12 and up.

Contributions are welcome! If you're interested in helping out, be sure to check
out the [contributing guidelines] for tips on getting started.

## Why?

The Google Play Store is the de-facto app store in the Android ecosystem.
However, many users are unsatisfied with some of its practices and policies such
as mandatory Play App Signing for new apps and the need for a Google account to
use the store. These users often turn to F-Droid, which fails to adhere to the
Android security model and provide timely and secure app updates from a store
with strict minimum security requirements.

Accrescent aims to resolve the security, privacy, and usability concerns of
existing Android app stores by addressing said concerns fundamentally in its
design.

## Trademark

The name "Accrescent" and the Accrescent logo are common law trademarks owned by
the Accrescent project. All other parties are forbidden from using Accrescent's
name and branding, as are derivatives of Accrescent. Derivatives include, but
are not limited to forks and unofficial builds.

[contributing guidelines]: CONTRIBUTING.md
[the website]: https://accrescent.app
